Xie Yu, SID: 204398665
Guanya Yang, SID: 204378262

CS 111 Lab 1c: Profiling Shell
———————————————————————————————
	In this lab, we timed every process started by the shell or by one of its descendant subshells and generated the output into a log file. Since we forked a subshell for each simple command, we called the profiling functions for each simple command. 

	The profile for each process is in the following format:

a b c d e
where a = time the command finished in seconds,
	b = command real time in seconds
	c = command’s user CPU time in seconds
	d = command’s system CPU time in seconds
	e = command name, or process ID if the process is the shell process itself

	To obtain (a), we called clock_gettime() using the clock CLOCK_REALTIME. For (b), we calculated the difference between the start time recorded at the beginning of the simple command and the finish time calculated from (a). We continued to use CLOCK_REALTIME, however it may not work if the server is the properly synchronized with UTC through NTP. We obtained (c) and (d) by calling getrusage() and chose the RUSAGE_CHILDREN parameter for profiling the simple command and chose the RUSAGE_SELF parameter for the shell itself.
 

Answers to Questions in the Spec:
—————————————————————————————————
1. Must the first column of the log output be in nondecreasing order? If not, give a counterexample.

Yes, because we wrote to the log each time a simple command finishes (when the process exits). Thus, the command finish time will always be increasing.

2. Can the second column be less than the sum of the third and fourth columns, other than due to rounding errors? If so, explain why.

No the execution time can never be less than the sum of the user time and system time. This is because the user time and system time is how long the process takes to run in user-mode or kernel-mode, respectively. The execution time is the real time elapsed, which may include time slices when other processes are run and time slices when the process is blocked. Thus, the execution time can only be greater than or equal to the user time and system time.

3. Can the second, third, or fourth column ever be negative? Briefly explain.

No, we can never measure negative time because the end time can never be before a start time.

4. How did you test your shell to make sure that log lines are not interleaved? If you used test scripts, submit a copy of the scripts as part of your submission tarball.

We wrote test cases that contained a lot of pipe operations. Then we compared our results with the times in /proc/[pid]/stat. Our test cases are implemented in the files test.sh and test2.sh.